Donald John Trump (born June 14, 1946) is the 45th and current President of the United States, in office since January 20, 2017. Before entering politics, he was a businessman and television personality.

Trump was born and raised in the New York City borough of Queens, and earned an economics degree from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. He took over his family's real estate business in 1971, renamed it The Trump Organization, and expanded it to involve the construction and renovation of skyscrapers, hotels, casinos, and golf courses. Trump also started various side ventures, including branding and licensing his name for real estate and luxury consumer products. He managed the company until his 2017 inauguration. Trump also gained prominence in media and entertainment. He co-authored several books, including The Art of the Deal, and from 2003 to 2015 he was a producer and the host of The Apprentice, a reality television game show. Trump owned the Miss Universe and Miss USA beauty pageants from 1996 to 2015. According to March 2018 figures by Forbes, he is the world's 766th richest person, with an estimated net worth of $3.1 billion.

Trump entered the 2016 presidential race as a Republican and defeated sixteen opponents in the primaries. Commentators described his political positions as populist, protectionist, and nationalist. His campaign received extensive free media coverage; many of his public statements were controversial or false. Trump was elected president against Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton; his victory upset the expectations of polls and analysts. He became the oldest and wealthiest person ever to assume the presidency, the first without prior military or government service, and the fifth to have won the election despite losing the popular vote. His election and policies sparked numerous protests.

In domestic policy, Trump appointed Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court. Citing security concerns, he ordered a travel ban on citizens from several Muslim-majority countries; a revised version of the ban was implemented after legal challenges. In December 2017, he signed tax reform legislation that cut rates and eliminated the Affordable Care Act insurance mandate. In foreign policy, Trump withdrew the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade pact and the Paris Agreement on climate change, partially reversed the Cuban Thaw, pressured North Korea over the acceleration of their missile tests and nuclear weapons program, and recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel.

After Trump dismissed FBI Director James Comey in 2017, the Justice Department appointed a special counsel to continue investigating links or coordination between the Trump campaign and Russian government in connection with Russian interference in the 2016 elections and related matters